# CrawlTrip is an AI-Aware Reverse Proxy

CrawlTrip is a Go-based reverse proxy designed to identify, classify, and monitor requests generated by AI Crawlers and AI Assistants while transparently forwarding traffic to an upstream application.

The project demonstrates modern backend and infrastructure concepts including reverse proxying, asynchronous messaging, distributed system decoupling.

The project represents the capstone of the Boot.dev Golang course, showcasing the application of learned concepts in a real-world inspired scenario. I think this may have no utility beyond being a learning exercise, but it was a fun and educational project to build!

## Features

* HTTP reverse proxy based on `net/http/httputil.ReverseProxy`
* AI bot detection with monperrus/crawler-user-agents pkg
* Reliable asynchronous event processing using NATS JetStream with durable consumers and message persistence.
* MongoDB request storage with a simple schema for request metadata
* Dead-letter queue for failed message processing
* Graceful shutdown and service lifecycle management


## Components

### Proxy Service

Responsible for:

* Accepting incoming HTTP requests
* Classifying clients
* Publishing AI-related events to NATS
* Forwarding requests to the upstream target
* Health check endpoint for monitoring

Proxy don't subscribe to any NATS subject, it only produces events for the Worker Service to consume and process asynchronously. It is designed to be fast and non-blocking, ensuring that the request flow is not hindered by the processing of AI-related events.

Health check endpoint is available at `/proxy/ping`, ensure every part of the system is up and running, including the NATS connection and MongoDB connectivity.
The ping endpoint need a 'X-Admin-Secret' header with the value of the `ADMIN_SECRET` environment variable to be accessed.

### Worker Service

Responsible for:

* Consuming NATS events
* Persisting request metadata
* Performing background processing

With JetStream's durable consumers and message persistence, the Worker Service can be scaled horizontally to handle increased load without losing messages. It can also implement retry logic and a dead-letter queue for failed message processing.

### Bot Filter

Responsible for:

* Filtering and classifying requests based on user-agent strings

Futuribley, this component could be enhanced to use more sophisticated techniques for bot detection, such as behavioral analysis or machine learning models.

---

## Data Model

Example stored document:

```json
{
  "_id": "6a3279875427ec0a46f480c0",
  "timestamp": "2026-06-17T10:40:07.628Z",
  "method": "GET",
  "url": "/",
  "proto": "HTTP/1.1",
  "headers": {
    "Accept": [ "*/*" ],
    "User-Agent": [ "Googlebot/2.1" ]
  },
  "body": null,
  "remoteaddr": "[::1]:34086",
  "host": "localhost:8080"
}
```

---

## Event Model

#### NATS subject for AI-related requests:

```text
worker.requests
```

#### Payload:

```json
{
  "Subject": "worker.request", 
  "Data": "(*classificator.RawRequest)(0x22dfd3916000)"
}
```
#### NATS subject for health check pings:

```text
worker.ping
```
## Acknowledgment Model

There's four possible acknowledgment actions for message processing:
```Go
type AckAction int

const (
	Ack AckAction = iota
	NackDiscard
	NackRetry
	NackWithDelay
)
```
Them ensure a reliable message **at-least-once** processing and allow for retry logic and dead-letter queue handling.

## Dead-letter queue subject for failed message processing:

A dedicated Stream listening to '*$JS.EVENT.ADVISORY.CONSUMER.MAX_DELIVERIES.*' and '*$JS.EVENT.ADVISORY.CONSUMER.MSG_TERMINATED.*' events, which can be used to monitor and handle failed or terminated messages.

A Consumer can be configured for delivery the dead-letter queue messages to the database or to a log for further analysis.

---

## Objectives

* Explore Go networking and middleware patterns
* Implement a production-inspired reverse proxy
* Apply asynchronous communication using NATS
* Demonstrate clean architecture and service decoupling

---

## Technology Stack

| Component        | Technology                      |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------- |
| Language         | Go                              |
| Proxy            | net/http, httputil.ReverseProxy |
| Router           | net/http                        |
| Messaging        | NATS                            |
| Database         | MongoDB                         |
| Bot Detection    | monperrus/crawler-user-agents   |
| Containerization | Docker                          |

---

## Future Improvements

* Prometheus metrics
* OpenTelemetry tracing
* Dashboard API
* Request body capture
* Rate limiting
* Redis caching
* Kubernetes deployment

---
## Getting Started
### Prerequisites
* Go 1.20+
* Docker
### Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/LoSquadrato/crawltrip.git
   cd crawltrip
   ```
2. Use shell scripts to build and run the services:
   ```bash
   ./nats.sh start
   ./mongo.sh start
   ```
3. Check the services are running:
   ```bash
   ./nats.sh status
   ./mongo.sh status
   ```
4. Create a .env file with the following content:
   ```env
   ADMIN_SECRET=your_admin_secret
   ```
5. Build and run the servers and worker services:
   ```bash
   go run ./cmd/proxy
   go run ./cmd/worker
   go run ./cmd/demo-server
   ```
6. Check the services are running:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:8080/proxy/ping -H "X-Admin-Secret: your_admin_secret"
   ```

## References

* [NATS Go Client](https://github.com/nats-io/nats.go)
* [MongoDB Go Driver](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver)
* [monperrus/crawler-user-agents](https://github.com/monperrus/crawler-user-agents)

## License
MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
